>> Scott Moss: Now I'm going to show you
how to do some inserts and some queries.
>> Scott Moss: So the first thing we want
to do is let's connect to the database
first cuz we can't do
anything until we connect.
Once we connect to the database then we'll
start actually adding stuff to the student
collection, and then we'll see if
we can retrieve it, basic stuff.
So what we'll do is we will run connect,
the function that we created.
And remember, connect is just calling
Mongoose.connect, which returns a promise,
so we should be able to just say .then and
that'll give us a connection.
We probably won't need this connection,
but we'll just reference it here.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, so
now that it connects to the database, and
just to be safe we'll just catch it and
log it if something happens.
>> Scott Moss: All right, so
once we're in the scope of the database
being connected and we're good to go,
we can actually start writing
operations against the database.
So using the student model, what I want to
do is I just want to create one student.
So there's a lot of ways you
can do that in Mongoose, but
the preferred way is just to use
the create method on the actual model.
So I can make a new student here by saying
student = and I'm going to await this.
I'm just going to return a promise,
I'm going to use asynch await actually,
it's just better.
So I'm going to await this, and
I'm going to say await Student.create
>> Scott Moss: So by using Student.create,
all I have to do is pass in an object that
fulfills the schema that I created above.
And the schema above only has
a firstName whose type is String.
There's no validations,
there's nothing else.
So if I pass in an object
that fulfills that schema,
then I should get back a new Student.
Well if you look at our schema there's
no validations, there's nothing.
I could actually just pass
in an empty object and
this would actually create a student.
It would have nothing on it other then ID.
Cuz when you create
documents IDs are generated,
but other than that there's
nothing else on it.
And that's kind of where you can
see the flexibility of Mongo, so.
But I'm just gonna ahead and
pass in the first name of Tim.
Cool, and then we'll just log this.
>> Scott Moss: So
now I connect to the database,
I'm going to create my first student,
and then I'm going to log it.
So, now in order to run this we
need to check for one thing.
One, we need to make sure our server
is actually running, our Mongo server.
The MongoDB instance itself
needs to be running.
For me, cuzI install it with Brew,
I actually use this pretty cool thing.
If you have Brew installed,
I use something called Launch Rocket.
And Launch Rocket,
what it does is it scans your
file in Brew and it shows you
all the services that you have,
and then you could just start
them with the GUI like this.
So I don't have to use
a terminal to go and start and
stop Mongo, I just use this GUI and
it does it for me.
This only works if you
install it with Brew.
If you didn't install with Brew,
it's still the same thing.
You just have to go in the terminal and
run the same command that we had to run
before, which is just gonna be "mongod".
And for me it's not gonna run
because it's already started.
I'm already running it so
it's not gonna execute it.
If you're not running it, this should just
hang and you should be running mongod.
So make sure your Mongo server's
started by running mongod
>> Scott Moss: Once that's good,
then we just execute this
file with just basic node.
So I don't know what you named
the file on your machine, but for
me I just called it test js, so
I'm just going to execute this file,
which is just for
me is going to be node test.js.
You can see like I said you'll get some
deprecation warnings because of what's
happening with Mongoose and Mongo right
now, so you can kind of ignore them for
now cuz they're not gonna kill your app
but what actually happened here is there
is my student, it was created,
and I logged it out.
So let's look at this object and
kinda dissect it a little bit.